"In the final analysis, although C is one of the world’s great programming
languages, there is a limit to its ability to handle complexity. Once the size of a
program exceeds a certain point, it becomes so complex that it is difficult to
grasp as a totality. While the precise size at which this occurs differs, depending
upon both the nature of the program and the programmer, there is always a
threshold at which a program becomes unmanageable. C++ added features that
enabled this threshold to be broken, allowing programmers to comprehend and
manage larger programs."


The Creation of Java

"Java was conceived by James Gosling, Patrick Naughton, Chris Warth, Ed
Frank, and Mike Sheridan at Sun Microsystems, Inc. in 1991. It took 18 months
to develop the first working version. This language was initially called “Oak,”
but was renamed “Java” in 1995. Between the initial implementation of Oak in
the fall of 1992 and the public announcement of Java in the spring of 1995,
many more people contributed to the design and evolution of the language. Bill
Joy, Arthur van Hoff, Jonathan Payne, Frank Yellin, and Tim Lindholm were key
contributors to the maturing of the original prototype."

"As mentioned at the start of this chapter, computer languages evolve for two
reasons: to adapt to changes in environment and to implement advances in the
art of programming. The environmental change that prompted Java was the need
for platform-independent programs destined for distribution on the Internet.
However, Java also embodies changes in the way that people approach the
writing of programs. For example, Java enhanced and refined the object-oriented
paradigm used by C++, added integrated support for multithreading, and
provided a library that simplified Internet access. In the final analysis, though, it
was not the individual features of Java that made it so remarkable. Rather, it was
the language as a whole. Java was the perfect response to the demands of the
then newly emerging, highly distributed computing universe. Java was to
Internet programming what C was to system programming: a revolutionary force
that changed the world."


Portability, Web, Secure, Applets...